---
date: '2024-09-07T16:08:36.420Z'
title: What is eKYC ?
tagline: ''
preview: What is eKYC ? How does eKYC work ?
image: 'https://imgur.com/Jtpmx8m.png'
---
What is eKYC ?

To understand what eKYC means, we will go through what KYC means. KYC(Know Your Customer) is a standard procedure of identity verification carried out as a part of a transaction in a regulated industry or before and during a financial relationship, either between two businesses or between a business and an individual.
KYC is a gate in onboarding bank account, taking out a loan, buying insurance which validate information of person legal or not, check that person is who are they.
To easy understand how KYC work, let go to sample KYC in bank:
 
As we can see that KYC involve offline procedures such as requesting and checking physical documents. User who want to open bank account, he must go to the bank to verify his information.

So what is eKYC ?
 
eKYC ( electronic Know Your Customer) uses digital technology to archive the same ends which can be procedured without meeting in person or exchange physical documents.

Why do most banks or financial institution decide to transform to use eKYC ?
In this context, traditional KYC methods are slower and more complex than other aspects of customer onboarding.

In other hand, eKYC has some benefits:
+ fast and simple: the process run automatically by system to speed up.
+ save time and money: reduce time to onboarding, background check
+ reduce procedures: provide services which help customer onboarding online.

How does eKYC work ?
In this context, Iet get a sample how eKYC work in bank
 

Let deep dive in each steps:
1-	Online Form

At the first step of eKYC process, forms are displayed to asking customer fill information:
•	Name
•	Address
•	Date of birth
•	Phone number
•	Social security

2-	Two-factor authentication

The most popular form of two-factor authentication of eKYC process is via SMS and Passcode.
Use SMS:
•	Customer enter their phone number
•	OTP (one time password) is automatically sent to customer’s phone
•	Customers retrieve and enter password into their mobile app
Use Passcode:
•	Set up passcode screen is displayed and customer fill your passcode. The passcode can be 4 – 6 characters.
•	Confirm passcode screen is displayed to make sure passcode’s customer

3-	ID Capture

Customer are asked to take photos of the front and back of their identity documents such as ID cards, passports or driver licenses.
Behind ID Capture, OCR( Optical Character Recognition ) is used to read data in ID documents. In deeper, data is compared with data of government to prove customer’s information is legal.

4-	Identity Verification

The main purpose help bank verify data in documents and data in form filled is same person.
Identity verification normally include 2 steps:
•	Face matching: Customer take a selfie to prove image in selfie matches image in ID document.
•	Liveness detection: Customer is asked to allow access camera and face it, then follow instructions turn left, turn right … This steps prove this customer is human, not robot or fake face.

5-	Database check

All customer’s information is verified with data of Government, Credit Information Center, Personal Income Tax, Social Security in order to ensure the applicant legally exists.

6-	Fraud Detection

Fraud Detection is all about identifying and preventing fraudulent activities.
In more technical terms, Fraud Detection is a form of pattern detection. It identifies abnormal patterns that deviate from expected behaviors. Usually, these abnormal patterns would be labeled as “fraudulent” or “suspicious” transactions and behaviors.
In general, fraud detection techniques can be separated by the use of either data analysis or AI or both.
Data analysis techniques for fraud detection include:
•	Using statistical parameters to build models
•	Regression analysis
•	Probability distributions and models
•	Data matching
AI techniques used for fraud detection include:
•	Data mining – classifying, grouping and segmenting data to search through transactions to find patterns and detect fraud
•	Neural network – leaning suspicious patterns and using those patterns to detect them further
•	Machine learning – Automatically identify characteristics found in fraud
•	Pattern recognition – detecting classes, clusters and patterns of suspicious behaviors

7-	AML Screening

What is AML ?
AML is standard for Anti-money laundering which includes all the laws, regulations and policies to prevent money laundering and financial crime.
AML Screening is one of the methods used for make risk assessment, avoid violating sanctions and protection from regulatory fines.
With AML screening, Customer’s provided data and images are screened against government-issued watchlists and politically exposed person lists.

8-	Enhanced Due Diligence

Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) is a set of measures applied in situations that indicate a higher risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. EDD measures include, among other procedures:
•	Obtaining specific information about the customer (e.g., name, date of birth);
•	Determining the customer’s beneficial owner;
•	Establishing the purpose and intended nature of the business relationship, etc.

9-	Risk Pools

Based on all the checks completed so far in the eKYC process, customers are allocated to suitable risk pools. In the meantime, those who are flagged as high risk are set aside and manually reviewed

10-	Ongoing Monitoring

Customers have their account, they are continuously monitored. This step includes AML monitoring and behavioral monitoring

Reference:

https://kms-solutions.asia/blogs/ekyc-process

https://kms-solutions.asia/blogs/fraud-detection-and-its-application-in-digital-banking



